The Atlas, which again?
Atlas and Mayo, which is the most famous Atlas.
Atlas, that's Atlas, and then Mayo, just the large one, the large Atlas.
What is it, 12 parts?
12 parts, yes.
It's one of the... I don't know, it's in the millions of pieces.
It's the most famous Atlas, yes.
Yes, oh yes.
It's in rather thin volumes, actually.
But there's only a quarter here, or the whole?
It's a whole in the collection of Per Brahe and a quarter in the collection of... You have more than one quarter.
Yes, that's a very rare book to sell.
Or acquire a boat.
Oh, we weren't in this.
Were we in this?
We are.
Yes, this is the Rangel.
That's right.
We were over there.
Rangel and Pedro are together today.
They are from the same town.
Oh, my goodness.
And some copies of this are stored in... I think there is one in the Uppsala University Library where that's called.
And that's how you'll find references to it?
Atlas Mayo and Blau, yes.
It is Blau, isn't it?
They are Blau, yes.
They had a Blau at the Bernadette yesterday.
They did?
There's one volume.
This was issued in many volumes, right?
So Atlas Mayer, apparently, it's not the actual book, it's not the book, it's known.
It's called G.E.L.A.
or something.
Yes, and the different parts, yeah.
But it's always referred to as the Atlas Mayer.
G.E.O.
This is really intense, yes.
The E.L.A.
The V is actually the G.E.L.A.
Maybe I should just take a picture, that'll be a little easier.
The camera's camera.
1662 How many volumes of this do you have?
We have got 12 in one library and 3 in another So you have all 15, what, there are 15?
No, there are 12, but there is a quarter from
One copy was divided among the daughters.
So you have a complete set here?
Yes.
Plus a quarter of the one set, yes.
Now, at the Bernadette, they have one volume.
That's the book I was telling you about, which they have, and it's out there for decoration in the red.
And it came in, and I said, gee, how did they get it?
Oh, somebody gave it to them.
And I said, who?
They don't know.
Oh, it was a merit gift.
That's right.
It came in in 1972.
But somebody gave them the one volume, and they didn't keep a record of who gave it to them.
I said, you get a book like this?
And the guy didn't even get a thank you, though.
They don't even know who gave it to them.
To say thank you.
Maybe they did, but you think that they don't.
I think the reason why it's called the Atlas Meijer is that there was also another edition, probably in another side of the book called the Atlas Meijer.
The condition of this, though.
Look at the condition of this.
You think this was purchased new?
You think this is a one-owner copy?
Yes, yes.
Per Brahe bought it.
kept it in his castle.
And it's still there.
Yes.
Well, that's pretty interesting.
Let me just wait, get it for sure.
This is a book you frequently see dissected and framed.
Well, imperfect copies would be saved by that.
Amazing.
I'm just going to see that book.
You would describe this in your professional judgment?
Well, this is a perfect position.
I suppose it is.
Nothing's ever happened to it.
There's no browning, there's no spotting, there's no... And the colouring is contemporary and perfect.
And it's the one that's been in the possession.
It's been here since February and brought it.
Yes, 1682, 1883.
Would you say that's possibly the most valuable book in the collection?
One of the most valuable.
What others would you put in?
We have got Bridget's Relevations in Conovla.
Yes, and I think that one.
That's the top item probably.
Yes, yes.
We discussed it in the car, one of those five copies surviving.
Make sure you see that.
That's interesting, of course.
That's a publisher's writing?
It says that?
Does it say that?
No, no, we know that.
We know that.
Because he bought it.
Please send me a post.
Oh, wow.
This is quite a striking room too, isn't it?
It is.
It is not.
All these rooms have names?
Yes.
Oh, you have to tell me the names.
So this one is called... Why don't you just write them down?
Go in this direction, down this way.
Start with Stockholm.
Köln, Colonial, Rome, Nantes, Bremen, Germany, and the last, Neapel, Napoli.
Naples.
Naples, I write it in.
You call it Napoli?
No, we call it Neapel.
Neapel, that's the German word.
Okay, just do it the way you do it, and then I'll, you know, I want it in your, I don't want my choice.
And we have, at last, Venice, Venedig.
That's where the Incarnabula are kept.
Where was the atlas kept?
Which room?
Okay.
The most small picture of the castle from 1820.
There are lots of elements up here and we have a book which was used when they made the decorations.
And it was totally broken.
So we can imagine that it was lying here.
Oh yes, but no paint in it.
No, no, no.
They live from...
Painted on the ceiling.
And in the Nantes room, animals.
And these were taken from a book.
Which you have, which is basically just used to wax.
Yes.
All the lilies.
What kind of animals?
How would you identify them?
But it's a wild animal.
Yes, wild animal.
Very special, the cat animal, which is very... Well, that's the name is Lynx.
Oh, Lynx, I know Lynx.
We have a... It's the only cat animal in Sweden, which is why.
Only feline in Sweden, right?
What do you think?
I don't know.
Maybe they were never ready.
Is it possible they were planned to be set in the wood?
Well, see, the map has a frame.
Of course, you'd have to mount that.
I mean, and the paintings in the rest of the castle do have frames, but the paintings in the library don't.
Interesting.
Are these pictures considered inferior to the ones below?
No, not at all.
Socrates, Solon, Pythagoras, who else?
Oh, Lucidides.
Pictures and, not books, that's not actually a book, but to lend pictures, Eishimaldi for example, to other museums around the world.
And people come here to see them and
And they're not here.
And this room is?
Naples, where the manuscripts were kept.
And what kind of manuscripts did you have?
letters we also called letters the manuscript correspondence yes correspondence but also books books not many and that's a very small collection the main part was correspondence it's a beautiful room yes it is and this was the room where there were lots of chairs and sofas so they could sit here and then read and listen to music too oh really yes yes that was at the time of charles
Carl-Johan Bernadotte, Jean-Baptiste Bernadotte.
That was at the beginning of the 19th century.
And the king came here frequently.
That's the one we talked about, the martial art, the Napoleons.
Yep.
Our French king.
This is a cabinet of curiosity.
Yes.
This is the precursor to the modern museum.
Oh, look at the bricks.
Look, let me hand you.
Oh, these two.
Wow.
This is amazing.
Different people draw wood from all the world, with a name written on them in Latin.
Yes, yes, yes.
But this is later, this is not from the time again, from the 19th century.
It's quite late, but even the corns kept here.
The birds you said were given to him by whom?
Two in the bag.
What was it?
It's spelled by two in the bag.
T-H-U-M-B-E-R-G.
It was the first one to issue a flora of Japan, but he's a proto-flora of Japan and the Cape Colony.
So his Japanese love him.
So his books are very sought out.
Yes, exotic books.
Yes.
Antiquity.
This is a collection from the Swedish Manor, quite far away from here.
But the owner was called Ulrik Sjeffer and he married a widow in the cluster and took his books with him here.
Nothing else from his home.
And the name of this room?
This room is Bremen.
Bremen, yes.
And that's a French collection.
French.
Both from the 18th century.
So there are some
volumes of plates as well.
Yes, they're only, I think they're only two plates.
But it's the first edition?
Yes, yes it is.
Who is working here?
uh paper restorers paper restorers so you're doing some work with some of the books yes and uh she checks the books to see if they are in a good condition
bad climate, because the circulation in the room is not as good as it is supposed to be.
Yes, yes, because there used to be a fireplace, but they have taken it away, they have closed it 100 years ago, and that has changed the circulation in this room, and that makes the problem.
It's bad for the books?
Yes, yes.
So we have been talking, if there will be more problems in here, we will take the books to the other room, too.
But the chill is no problem.
No, cold is in front of the books.
So actually the climate is unusual, but it's good for the books that you have, right?
Yes, yes.
In the other rooms there are no problems at all.
Very, very good.
Because of the good circulation.
Good circulation and cold.
I love these vines.
We're supposed to be walking in a vineyard.
Covered with illustrations from Sheffier's Laplandia book on Lapland.
from the end of the 17th century.
And I took the... No, no, it's a bone from reindeer.
Oh, really?
Yeah.
Oh, you have all the little pictures of the first edition of Islafonia.
They were all taken from Islafonia.
So it's contemporary.
So tell me what this is, what is this, this is it?
He wrote a very influential work about Lapland, but he didn't visit Lapland himself, it's a compilation of... Yeah, but these are pictures from the book to the book.
Yes, yes, yes.
And then these are copies of the illustrations from... Could you write down the book there?
I'm going to take a picture of this thing.
Approximately, how old is that book?
1672, I think, was the first edition.
And then there were several editions, very short after 17... What do you call this piece?
We've got, I think... What, Cala Genselheim?
It's a cabinet, of course.
It's a cabinet, right?
Yes, a cabinet, yes.
Yes, it looks inside too because of the paper.
That was quite exclusive at that time too.
Is it a unique object or were there other... No, I don't think there are any others.
So this is commissioned, one only?
Scheffer, the owner of the library.
He was related to?
Yes, he was related to Schaefer.
Okay.
Who was the person again who owned this cabinet?
This came in with this particular person who wrote these books?
Yes, he came in with Schaefer.
The same name without the U.S., which is the Latin ending, so he just... I think Schaefer, Schaefer was his grandfather's grandfather or something like that, yes.
German scholar who was recruited to Uppsala University.
What do you suppose you kept in that?
Curiosities again, probably, right?
What do you suppose they kept in that cabinet?
It could be small pieces of Curiosities, even rings.
The jewellery box, maybe?
But you see, the wood is Swedish wood.
Pear and pear.
Pear tree, right?
Yes.
Pear?
That's a fruit tree, right?
with reindeer, corn.
But it's interesting also because these are very conventional religious scenes, Adam and Eve in Eden, and then you find these exotic landscapes.
What room are we in?
Did you say Venice?
with our very very young library from the beginning of the 19th century again quite spectacular
It's the owner of the book, Magnus Brahe.
And that book is?
1840 or something?
Yes.
It's not a book of much interested.
1844?
He died that year.
These are much different, these are more recent books, right?
Yes, this is Magnus Brød, did you say?
Yes, yes.
And this is actually the dedication copy, the copy to the one who... He didn't buy books, he got all his books.
Ah, he had a high office.
Yes, yes.
He was very close to the king, Bernadotte.
He was the translator of the king, actually.
So was Nicholas going through all of these books, or was he looking for anything in particular?
He just found this?
Yes, just found it, because we had taken the other bestler in this room together with
This is the first edition of Deathless, and it's a little destroyed.
The body is destroyed, so it's kept like this.
And yes, he was looking around here, and he said, what's that?
And so, it's unfinished, but there were wonderful things.
There were some leaves in there, too, actually.
Yes.
And this one is...
Oh, yeah.
Hold that open.
That's great.
I like it just like this.
I like the picture.
Beautiful.
Is this a German?
Yes, yes.
Oh, yeah.
Let's just stay right here.
I'm a German number, probably.
And also a war booty.
Yes, yes, it is.
He's a war booty.
Yes.
They're German.
Oh, yes.
Is this one in Nadine's field of research?
Only printable.
So just tell me again, do you have a title for this book?
No, actually we haven't.
It's a book of flowers from the beginning of the 17th century, made in German, probably from a nunnery.
So these are all original paintings?
Oh, yes.
So obviously, how could he possibly know it?
It's a unique book, right?
Yes, but he apparently didn't know of it either.
I mean, it could have been known in the literature.
No, but it wasn't.
But it wasn't.
No one had noticed.
Yes, early 17th century.
And it's two volumes.
Two volumes, yes.
With many paintings of flowers.
Yes.
Are these watercolors, or what kind of... Yes.
What would they be?
It looks like watercolors.
Wow, that's really beautiful.
and unrecorded.
How would you describe the quality of the paintings?
Fine.
And there is no printed... I mean, they're not done after a printed book, for example.
I mean, they're just unique, the design is unique.
You see, you could publish that.
That's a facsimile.
You can make a facsimile, I think, yes.
It's a pretty good monograph for somebody to look into, actually.
There's supposed to be flowers to be found in Germany, but even many flowers can be found here.
What is that written about?
So the artist did write some things in, and we're assuming it's a sheet.
She also put some numbers.
Why are you assuming it's a... Much is missing.
Well, it seems that they're mainly garden plants, isn't that right?
Are there trees as well?
Yes, but I think there are some that can be... Because if it's only garden plants, that would seem reasonable to have... So can you name some of the flowers we've seen?
Sunflowers?
Geraniums.
Geraniums, lilies.
What's that?
Lots of blank sheets, though, aren't there?
Lots of blank sheets, yes.
Put all the numbers on them.
What is that?
Lissimachia fedida.
Oh, that was beautiful.
Very heraldic.
How do you spell it?
Well, let's look at the delicate pink there.
Is there any text at the front?
Was there anything written at the front?
No, but you see, there has been something taken away here.
A plate or something?
Yes, and maybe a name written there.
A missing plate, tantalizing.
They have tried to take it all away, but they haven't been successful.
That might have indicated where it came from.
So that's probably 30 Years War.
30 Years War?
And from where?
Do we know?
Germany.
And also some of these are unfinished.
Yes, yes.
Lots of them are unfinished.
Has anyone done a collation?
Do you know how many pictures there are in there?
Yes, but I don't remember.
I think our past...
chief created did it but is there a catalog leaf for this like the ones you showed yes yes yes it should be yes it should be yes i wonder how you cite it how would you know more about it so it's not secret at all i think it's important but isn't it probable that it has been attributed to germany because of the binding and that that
Not the plants.
It's the binding that makes you... Well, that's just my guess.
That indicates it could be German.
Well, it doesn't seem to me that there are many... There doesn't seem to be much in the inside to say this is a German book.
Well, are the flowers, are the plants more in debit to Germany than they are... It could be, yes, of course.
But usually...
He's the one who's written this.
So apparently the plants are German.
So tell me who he is.
Oh, so this is in 1920.
Somebody wrote in 1920.
This little piece of paper was signed in 1912.
I don't know much about him, but he was a botanist.
He was a famous botanist.
Attributes.
Well, plates.
To Germany.
What we're saying is that in 1912, a famous botanist looked at this and tried to give a preliminary
evaluation of what it is and where it's from.
So we could determine who made the paper?
Yes, probably.
It's difficult to know what he has chosen to attribute the pictures.
What I'm saying is that there's an interesting monograph there for somebody who cares about... But it's difficult to say anything about the originality of these pictures.
Also because there are blank leaves.
If they're copied from... Somewhere in Germany.
And the story about the nunnery, is that also because of the kind of flowers?
Yes, yes, yes.
I don't think they're being welcome.
Ah, okay.
Dr. Lindberg, whom we spoke about.
I hope so.
If there was a memory to be sacked, nice books, go get the books.
But the pagination runs from 150, so there are five leaves, six leaves missing here.
But this is only one place, I mean there could be others.
Yes there are.
47, and this is... What about the diamond or something?
That was high in gold.
Even the Italian one?
No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
And the latest from 1844.
So that was the while we held it.
Yes, yes.
But that was a book from the 1840s.
Yes.
From the last... Yes.
So the inculnerable was a goodie, a stolen book, upon his birth?
Yes, yes.
That's a good way to get them.
Yes, one of the collectors.
There are a few that have been paid, but most of them would have.
But the Bridget book can't have been stolen, okay?
Yes, and it belonged to Per Brøy.
Per Brøy, he was a relative.
Birgitta was his ancestor.
So it was part of his family's tradition.
So you would have got it in Sweden rather than from the other part in February.
That's good.
Six copies.
National Library and Paris.
What is the actual title of the book?
What do we call the book?
The Last One.
When did the printing press first come into Sweden?
The Swedish book was 1483.
So it's pretty close.
But this one wasn't printed in Sweden.
No, it was printed in Germany.
Because it was a project of such dignity.
We couldn't make a book like that in Sweden.
But it came to Sweden.
She's our only saint.
Who is truly a saint?
We have St.
Eric and St.
Olaf.
They're not saints, really.
She actually got the popes to return from Avignon, according to some people.
She was involved in that.
When the European Union wanted to
patron saint recently she was at least among the candidates but i don't know who the family chose i haven't heard it i hate to be on that because most of them are known in imperfect copies only and in one or two or three copies max so so they simply don't exist from the market yes loose leaves but but the swedish
Small and ugly, and 16 frames.
That's it?
Yeah.
16?
Imprints.
I like it.
Oh, my old son.
Pause, pause, pause there.
You can just hold the pen.
I don't want the pen anywhere near.
I know enough about pens.
That's beautiful.
This copy is twice as thick as a normal copy.
Almost.
Well, not quite, but an ordinary copy would be something.
I'm glad that copies from the same date on paper.
Oh, there is a paper copy in there.
I can take it down, too.
Oh, this is the true spectacular one.
Yeah.
Do we know the artist?
Yes.
Probably not.
And that is the saint right there.
See, right?
Yes.
Different scene.
This woodcut is made up of six different woodcuts or something like that.
And they're all like that.
There are a few full-page illustrations.
You guys can put your hands in.
I like a little...
Oh, that's great.
It's just fine.
Look at that.
Feel it.
It's incurable, and it's absolutely precious.
There are a few famous pictures.
Yes, it's a very velvety feeling.
And this defect here, for example, is from the original skin, of course, hasn't it?
Is this the first St.
Bridget you've handled?
Well, actually, we've sold a few copies.
But there were only six.
On vellum, yeah.
On vellum.
This is the first one on vellum.
Yes, it is.
And there's the paper copy.
And there's actually a difference.
These are different states as well.
Because the vellum edition, some change was made.
So there's one or two pages which are slightly different.
But otherwise, they're identical.
There's this little... I was just trying to find this Maistamathiyas, the scribe.
There's one, a beautiful picture of her.
What is she doing there?
She's divinely inspired.
These revelations are... I don't know.
She came in with a trance, and she couldn't talk, and she got this revelation in daytime.
This is Vita Sancta Birgitta, this is her life, and this is the end of the Revelaciones.
I think Magister Mattias should be at the end of the Revelaciones.
No?
Okay, maybe we won't find it.
Brigitte or Brigitte?
Well, actually, she is Birgitta, but that's frequently translated into Brigitte.
B-R-I-G-I-D?
No, Brigitte.
Bridget.
St.
But it's actually... Yeah, that's right.
This is... There is one small wood for depicting a scribe.
Now, this is the wood location and everything here, but no, I want to...
Is this three-colour printing?
No.
No, you see this is the original letter printed here, and then it was rubricated.
Why would there have been only six on vellum?
So these must have been for royal presentation, would you say?
Original letter there are 15.
There were records to indicate 15?
This is a full page, a true full page will cut, while the other ones are composite ones.
So that would have been tipped in, so to speak.
Yes.
We can find this one towards the end.
It's quite strange if you compare it with... Oh, there he is, Maester Mattias.
Yes.
But we should find this one.
It should be truly magnificent if we find it.
Explain, this is not the Bible.
No, she was inspired, as she said, and she wrote down what she saw.
Well, it's very political in context.
Yes, she was accused of being very political.
So she's like the national... I mean, we're a Protestant country, but she's... She named the different Italian politicians from the churchmen and the contemporary actions.
Her period was when?
The 14th century.
06 or something.
No, 1303 to 1373, I think she died.
She was the 70s.
She went to Rome and then she went on her pilgrimage to... Should I have any...
These have to be studied.
It's basically the same picture.
No, it's not the same picture at all.
Look at that up here.
There is a copy in the clock of... This is the same page?
No, not really, is it?
It's a salvation.
Maybe it's just... We'll create it later.
We will find the identical.
this copy with a copy in Norco 20 years ago, and there were differences, especially in colours, but also in... Even between the Valen copies?
Yes, yes.
But it's very odd, because this is the regular cellulose, so it should be the same.
Yes.
So even within a series along with different copies, the illustrations are not really the same.
No, no.
Interesting.
This is a different one.
So these are first printings by different states.
But it's difficult to say exactly.
One would have to study them very carefully.
There have been studies in the... You see this?
These are not the same.
You see, this is the same text, but it's very different.
This is the same text, with a different... These are different... It's a totally different type there, too.
Look at how this is starting here, and how that's starting differently.
And the size of the type up there is larger than down here.
But that's probably...
There are a few textual differences.
Most pages you will find to be identical, but a few pages have been reset with consequences like this.
But how about the end of the second column?
Do they end with the same text?
Well, they should.
It's difficult to... Well, they should, but if they don't, then they... It's difficult to... Here it is.
Let's go to the last word in the second column of each one.
Is it the last word in the second column?
No, that's not the same.
It's not the same word.
But one should have to make very sure that these are... What I'm saying is that the text is not the same.
It's going to be different than just about every page.
Yes, but there are a few initials which differ, and consequently the text will move accordingly.
But I don't see how they could both be first editions, then.
They're first editions in different states.
Okay.
Because if you change very, very much of the text, and you reset the text, you'll have a different edition.
But even if the type is changed, it's still the first edition?
Well, depending on how much it is.
Okay.
Because there has been, or at least you could call them different issues, if you like.
These differences create different issues, maybe, but not a different edition.
These are both the same year?
Yes, 1492.
That's very strange, very strange.
But it's difficult to say.
We would have to be very, very sure that these are corresponding pages.
Yeah, of course, these are just a thing.
These are just a thing.
They're just a thing.
and there was one very good book paper of course one in contemporary binding very nice copy and one leaves from five different copies had been assembled to make a copy well the good paper copy
Because these exist on the market.
I would have expected more.
Yes, in fact, it's not extremely, but it's still a late incurable.
I mean, 1492, for Sweden, that's incredible.
Putting something like that on the market,
I don't know, no idea.
A million?
More?
More.
A million?
Maybe.
Well, maybe not a million dollars now, but... Are there any privately owned or are they all institutionally owned?
Are there any of these in private hands, I wonder?
I don't think there are any.
I don't think so, no.
They're in public libraries?
Yes, yes.
No, there's one in the Royal Library, too.
On Vellum.
Yes.
It came from a private collection.
As a guess, I might purchase.
No, I think it was.
What would you say is the most important book in Sweden?
Well, no.
Or the silver Bible.
The witch?
Well, you know, I live in Uppsala.
We say it's the silver Bible.
They thought it was from Stockholm.
The witch, though?
Yes.
Well, the silver Bible is the first document in a gothic family language.
I mean, so it's a manuscript from 500 B.C., more or less.
The volume is 500 B.C.?
No, excuse me.
Of course, A.D.
It's from the year 500.
All pages are colored and dyed in a purple, so they are red, the pages.
And then the text is in silver, which has been more or less black now.
It's called the Silver Bible, and that must be in the Royal Library.
No, it's in the Uppsala International Library.
One leaf was stolen.
Any time you want to see a leaf, you come to Uppsala and it's on display.
So one leaf.
One leaf, because the mass of the book is kept.
It's not found, so only one leaf is on display.
You said one is stolen, though?
One was stolen a few years ago, but it's impossible to sell.
There's no way.
But somebody has it.
No, but they have to return.
They discovered very quickly that they had stolen the wrong thing.
They tore it out of the book?
No, it was in a glass case.
So they crashed the glass and they took the leaf.
But without damage, they had been very careful.
How did they return it?
Well, they tried to sell it back to the government eventually, I think.
That's what's happening in Boston.
But they wouldn't pay.
Because you can't start paying for them.
Oh, you can, of course.
I don't recognize that.
No, because it was Italian.
Oh, that's probably just us.
Famous women.
Now, what is this book?
This is a 16th century book?
No, no, no.
Oh, in Indonesia?
Yes, 1493, 1550.
Okay.
Ninety... Ninety-seven.
Forty-nine-to-seven.
How did this come in here?
Again, Bodhi?
Yes.
Italian book.
Venice.
And do we know it?
Do we have a name, a title for it?
Yes.
Go down the...
But you see it's the same picture.
Yes, yes.
Just the same picture several times.
for different women.
Apostola, Huberorum.
Who are some of the women?
Do we know them?
Many of them are unknown to us.
A martyr called Saint Anastasia.
Anastasia Nobilissima, Romanorum.
So maybe religious... Well, but there ought to be some from heathen mythology as well, because there are quite a few.
I mean, you don't expect to see Cullopatra in there.
No, we're not Cleopatra, but it's Santa Rosina, Sekunda.
We are martyrs, apparently.
How are you arrangered?
Is it Bokstufoning?
No.
It's about Marianas, Hebrea, Femina.
Joan of Arc should be in there, you'd think.
Venturi, yeah.
Sybilla, Tiburtina, I mean, that's not very... Is it mostly a Talib?
No, they have a Talib.
This is a Vestal Virgin, actually, so it's also ancient history.
I wonder how easy they had to read this.
That's Italian too, do you think?
No, this is Latin, yeah.
No, this is from Germany.
Oh, is it from Germany?
Oh, yeah.
It's even better.
1456?
1656 is pretty damn close to the... To the invention of the...
Membranar meaning vellum.
So they were very proud of this printable.
Anvil 66.
It's, yeah, I now remember.
It's printed in Mainz.
Which is really... Mainz incunable.
In vellum.
This is a library in itself.
Incunable.
Anvil 1466.
Cicero.
Is the subject of Cicero?
Yes.
Cicero de officis.
O-F-F.
C-I-S.
That's pretty spectacular.
Is there a coliform?
Yes.
Printed in red.
It's pretty close.
It's a time.
It's difficult to see what it says.
But it must be a man... ...or something like that.
Even more here.
Yes, post.
It's post?
Oh, come on.
And they should say, I don't remember now what the Latin word for Mainz is.
But... Mogunt.
Yes, Mogunt, yeah, yeah.
So that's it.
M stands for Mogunt.
So it says, roughly translated, roughly.
Well, the problem is I can't read it all because it's difficult to see what it says.
Okay, but what you see is the word for Mainz.
Well, it says opus Johannes Fusti.
Magdeburg, no, Mogunti.
In 1466.
The work of, yes.
Mainz, 1466.
This is true.
And this was brought to this library by whom, you think?
Carl Gustav Bielke.
Carl Gustav, what was the last part?
Bielke.
B-I-E.
And he had bought it.
He bought this?
Yes, he bought it.
Are you sure?
Yes.
Here is the building, 1739.
And in fact, this is the typical Swedish 1735.
Okay, tell me what it says back here.
On the back, the binding, well, we can't read this.
This is the cost of the binding.
This is when he bought it, 23 October 1739.
The price of the binding.
And he always tells.
And what's the price of the binding?
Did he buy it in Jävle?
Yes, no, no, it was a distinct, oh, it was a distinct, but it has been bought.
Who was the one who gave it to me?
I don't remember.
Is that his signature?
Yes, yes, oh yes.
And he had it bound, which is why he writes this, the binding costs.
So maybe he got an original binding and destroyed it.
This is in the front case now, right?
Yes.
And what he has indicated there is that he got it.
He tells that it was a gift.
He was a governor in Gävle.
It's quite mysterious because he almost always tells who gave him a book, but he doesn't tell us.
It's simply a gift in the city of Gävle.
Contemporary or?
Yes, contemporary.
Because it's spelled differently.
And then the cost of the binding, but I can't read this.
That's okay.
This little label.
This is very interesting because this is when they were about to sell the books in the 16th.
They had started to mark the books for selling them.
So what we see down here is a little preliminary label, preparatory to selling.
So we never discussed this library was going to be disposed of.
16, no, 1965-1966.
And this is when they were privately owned?
Yes, yes, last private years.
They bought it in 1967.
What did the state pay, do you know?
25 million.
Dollars?
No, crowns.
That's nothing.
Was that even cheap then?
I don't know how it would be.
No, it was quite cheap, given at that time, I think.
I'm sorry, what?
It's only... It's only the castle and the park.
I see.
No lands to it, because the last family, Funessa family, they kept
They kept the land.
That's why they're farming out there.
You see how I asked you to look at the cauliflower, didn't I?
I said, let's look at the cauliflower.
Yes, but we had looked at it, but we weren't able to read.
Because it's difficult.
It's printed in red.
So first we weren't able to see what it says.
Because it's difficult to see.
Here it says Fust, but it's almost impossible to see.
There it is.
Yes.
So because the date is on the last line.
How does this come into the possession?
This is the action ball, though?
We don't know.
17th century.
But if it was bought, or if it probably was taken, but we don't know from what place it was taken.
So we don't even know the prior owner of that one?
No, we don't.
That's one of the most famous bibliographic paintings there.
It's not, it's made on camera.
It's painted on camera.
The other Asimbaldo, the Bertumnus, is painted on wood.
That's right.
This is probably going to reflect, but I'm going to try it anyway.
You have good reproductions of the library.
I want to get it in situ, as we say.
It might, because I think the flash went that way.
That's the original, right?
The reproductions mean nothing to me.